Add v1.7.0 template upgrade guide (#10615)
hashicorp/packer: website/content/guides/1.7-template-upgrade.mdx

---
page_title: Upgrading your template to use Packer init
sidebar_title: Upgrade Your Template to use Packer init
---

# Upgrading your template to be compatible with `packer init`

> The `packer init` command is introduced in version v1.7.0 at the same time the [Packer Plugin SDK](https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk)
> is officially released. The Packer Plugin SDK is a change that benefits plugins maintainers, whilst the `init` command
> benefits Packer users by providing a better control of plugin usage within a Packer template configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `packer init` command introduced in version v1.7.0 benefits Packer users by providing better control of plugin usage within a Packer template configuration.
```
I think we can drop the call out for the SDK here as it release time is not relevant for this guide. The call out you have below `"The easiest way to know if the plugin you use fits those requirements, is by looking for SDK migration in their CHANGELOG"` is perfect and helps make this point.

Author: Great! If you felt that was enough then you right. I wrote this part before right the other one.

> In short words, `packer init` will look at the `required_plugins` block definition within a template, take the required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In short words, `packer init` will look at the `required_plugins` block definition within a template, for the required
```

plugins specifications and download the correct binaries for that template. For details about how the command works and
where the plugins will be installed, please refer to the [`packer init`](/docs/commands/init) documentation.

> -> **Note:** `packer init` does not work with legacy JSON templates. You can
> upgrade your JSON config files to HCL using the [hcl2_upgrade](/docs/commands/hcl2_upgrade) command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **Note:** `packer init` is only supported for HCL templates. You can
upgrade legacy JSON templates to HCL using the [hcl2_upgrade](/docs/commands/hcl2_upgrade) command.
```

Nit: I find positives statements easier to process.

Author: Oh yeah, sounds much better!

## Updating your template with the `required_plugins` block

### Why do I need to upgrade my template?

> To use the new released `packer init` command and have all the winnings that it is supposed to bring, you must upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the `packer init` command and have all the winnings that it brings, you must upgrade
```

your template to use the `required_plugins` block. The `init` command won't work if no `required_plugins` is provided.

> We strongly encourage you to upgrade and start using `required_plugins` template, but if you are not confident on doing
> this now you can still install plugins manually like the old times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly encourage you to upgrade and start using `required_plugins` block within your templates to manage plugin installation, but if you prefer not to use the `required_plugins` block you can continue to [install plugins manually](/docs/plugins#installing-plugins).
```

### When to upgrade my template?

> The `packer init` can only install plugins that are upgraded to use our brand new [Plugin SDK](https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `packer init` command can only install plugins that have upgraded to use the latest version of the [Packer Plugin SDK](https://github.com/hashicorp/packer-plugin-sdk),
```

> and therefore compatible with our API version v5.0. The easiest way to know if the plugin you use fits those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and therefore compatible with Packer's API version v5.0. The easiest way to know if the plugin you use fits those
```

requirements, is by looking for SDK migration in their CHANGELOG, and noticing if the plugin repository is named as
`packer-plugin-*` (e.g. `packer-plugin-comment`).

> If the plugin you use is upgraded, you are ready to upgrade your template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the plugin(s) have been upgraded, the can be used with the `required_plugins` block in your upgraded template.
```

#### The plugin I need is not upgraded to API v5.0

With the SDK released at the same time as the `init` command, plugin users may face a gap between the release and
plugins upgrade. Maintainers will have to upgrade their plugins, and the process is a little more complicated than this one.
The Packer team is getting in touch with all currently known plugin maintainers to provide support during their upgrade process.

If you are willing to upgrade your template but found out that the plugin you are using hasn't been upgraded yet,
we suggest you reach out to the plugin maintainers and ask for an upgrade.

> Check it out the table below to better understand what behavior to expect from a Packer version with the current state
> of your template, and the plugins you are using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the table below to better understand what behavior to expect from a Packer version with the current state
of your template and the plugins you are using.
```

| Single Component Plugin - API v4 | Single Component Plugin - API v5.0     | Multi Component Plugin - API v5.0      | Packer Version   |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------| ---------------- |
| Manual Installation              | Not Compatible                         | Not Compatible                         | v1.5.0 to v1.6.6 |
| Not Compatible                   | Manual and `packer init` Installation  | Manual and `packer init`  Installation | v1.7.0           |

### How to upgrade my template

Let's use the following template as an example:

```hcl
# file: example.pkr.hcl

source "null" "basic-example" {
  communicator = "none"
}

build {
  sources = ["sources.null.basic-example"]

  provisioner "comment" {
    comment = "Hello from comment plugin"
    ui = true
    bubble_text =  true
  }
}
```

This template uses the `packer-provisioner-comment` plugin and, until Packer v1.7.0, the binaries were installed manually.

> From Packer v1.7.0, the plugin has been upgraded by its maintainers and now is called `packer-plugin-comment` and the
> latest version is v0.2.23. Knowing that, our example template can be upgraded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From Packer v1.7.0, the plugin has been upgraded by its maintainers and is now called `packer-plugin-comment` with it latest version being v0.2.23. Knowing that, our example template can be upgraded to use the `required_plugins` block.
```

```hcl
# file: example.pkr.hcl

packer {
    required_plugins {
        comment = {
            version = ">=v0.2.23"
            source = "sylviamoss/comment"
        }
    }
}

source "null" "basic-example" {
  communicator = "none"
}

build {
  sources = ["sources.null.basic-example"]

  provisioner "comment" {
    comment = "Hello from comment plugin"
    ui = true
    bubble_text =  true
  }
}
```

The upgraded template is now telling Packer that it requires a plugin from the source `sylviamoss/comment`

> of the version equals or greater `v0.2.23`. It also tells that the plugin should be referred in the rest of the template as `comment`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the version equal to or greater than `v0.2.23`. It also indicates that the plugin should be referred as `comment` in the rest of the template.
```

Here it is a brief explanation of each field:
- `version` - Should follow the [version constraints](/docs/templates/hcl_templates/blocks/packer#version-constraints).
- `source` - Should have the plugin's organizational namespace on GitHub and its short name. Packer will be responsible

> to write the full GitHub address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for determining the full GitHub address.
```

  For example, if the source is `sylviamoss/comment`, Packer will download the binaries from `github.com/sylviamoss/packer-plugin-comment`.
  To learn more about the source field, check out the [Source Address](/docs/plugins#source-addresses) documentation.
- `comment`- Can be replaced with whatever you want, and the new value will become the name of the plugin.
  For example:
    ```hcl
    packer {
        required_plugins {
            bubbled_up = {
                # ...
            }
        }
    }

    # ...

    build {
        # ...

        provisioner "bubbled_up" {
            # ...
        }
    }
    ```

Once the template is upgraded, you can run `packer init example.pkr.hcl` and the output should tell you the installed
plugin, and the place where it was installed.

```shell
➜ packerdev init example.pkr.hcl
Installed plugin sylviamoss/comment v0.2.23 in "/Users/<user>/.packer.d/plugins/github.com/sylviamoss/comment/packer-plugin-comment_v0.2.23_x5.0_darwin_amd64"
```

> `packer init` will only download plugins binary and never delete existing ones. If all the required_plugins are installed,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`packer init` will only download plugin binaries and never delete existing ones. If all the required_plugins are installed,
```

Author: I never know how to write this which one should be plural 🤦🏼

the command won't do anything unless you set the `-upgrade` flag to force download newer versions of the existing plugins.

Now that the required comment plugin is installed via `packer init`, you can run `packer build example.pkr.hcl` as usual

> and won't need to run `init` again unless you want to upgrade the plugin version.

Reviewer: Should we add a little blurb about calling build before init?

Author: Just added one at the end of the guide. Let me know if there's something to change/fix there.

Reviewer: Love it! Sounds great.

---
page_title: Upgrading your template to use Packer init
sidebar_title: Upgrade Your Template to use Packer init
---

# Upgrading your template to be compatible with `packer init`

The `packer init` command introduced in version v1.7.0 benefits Packer users by providing better control of plugin
usage within a Packer template configuration.

> In short words, `packer init` will look at the `required_plugins` block definition within a template, for the required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In short, `packer init` will look at the `required_plugins` block definition within a template, for the required
```

plugins specifications, and download the correct binaries for that template. For details about how the command works and
where the plugins will be installed, please refer to the [`packer init`](/docs/commands/init) documentation.

-> **Note:** `packer init` is only supported for HCL templates. You can
upgrade legacy JSON templates to HCL using the [hcl2_upgrade](/docs/commands/hcl2_upgrade) command.

## Updating your template with the `required_plugins` block

### Why do I need to upgrade my template?

> To use the `packer init` command and have all the winnings that it brings, you must upgrade

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the `packer init` command, you must upgrade
```

your template to use the `required_plugins` block. The `init` command won't work if no `required_plugins` is provided.

> We strongly encourage you to upgrade and start using `required_plugins` block within your templates to manage plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We strongly encourage you to upgrade and start using the `required_plugins` block within your templates to manage plugin
```
